---
layout: post
title:  "All The Books I Read In 2020"
date:   2020-01-01T09:09:00Z
---
Some notes and quotes from the books I have read this year:

* [The Meritocracy Trap](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/548174/the-meritocracy-trap-by-daniel-markovits/) - The meritocracy trap is basically a snowball effect in which middle class jobs get displaced by more highly skilled, higher paying jobs. Those with the higher paying jobs then use their money to ensure that their kids are able to get these high paying jobs starting with placing them in expensive pre-schools and high schools to give them the best chance to get into the highly regarded universities to give them the best chance at getting the high paying jobs. As a result, what the author calls the superordinate working class works harder and longer than they ever have before, essentially exploiting their own skills just to maintain their place. Another result is that innovations are more skewed towards the skills that the superordinate workers already have, making their skills even more valuable. In the end nobody wins.
    + "The division between gloomy and glossy jobs causes elites to give their children the extraordinary investments needed to get the glossy jobs."
    + "The rise of an elaborately educated elite induces the innovations that bias work and income to favor the skills that this elite possesses."
    + "What is conventionally called merit is actually an ideological conceit, constructed the launder a fundamentally unjust allocation of advantage."
    + "Meritocratic inequality divides society into the useless and the used up."


* [Biased](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/557462/biased-by-jennifer-l-eberhardt-phd/9780735224933/) - This book was great at balancing academic studies on racial biases with personal anecdotes. I found it startling how much of an influence priming can have on racial biases (black faces are more likely to be picked out when induced to think about crime, aggressive words are more likely to be picked out after being shown photos of black faces) and the role that this can play in police being more violent towards black men.
    + There is less brain activity in the areas that process faces when someone sees a face of someone of a different race than their own.
    + "Categorization - grouping like things together - is not some abhorrent feature of the human brain, a process that some people engage in and other do not. Rather, it is a universal function of the brain that allows us to organize and manage the overload of the stimuli that constantly bombard us."
    + "Bias, even when we are not conscious of it, has consequences that we need to understand and mitigate. The stereotypic associations we carry in out heads can affect what we perceive, how we think, and the actions we take."
    + "In a series of studies, they asked people to rate the height, weight, and strength of young black and white men from photographs showing only their faces. Study participants consistently rated black men as taller, heavier and stronger than white men."
    + In a study involving a mock altercation between a black man and a white man that students didn't know was scripted "the students used a much lower threshold for labeling black actions as violent."
    + "The same fear response that's supposed to keep us safe can activate bias in ways that stigmatize and threaten others."
    + "Research supports the notion that raising the issue of race and discrimination explicitly can lead people to be more open-minded and act more fairly, particularly when they have time to reflect on their choices."
    + "Encouraging children to remain blind to race dampened their detection of discrimination, which had ripple effects. Color blindness promoted exactly the opposite of what was intended: racial inequality."
    + "It's true that we are wired for bias. But the problem with narrowly settling for that perspective is that it can lead us to care less about the danger associated with bias, instead of more. When something is regarded as a norm, people cease to judge it as harshly. ... They feel less agency and less motivation to change."
    + "The worry is that groups that sign on the the easy, socially responsible training might be less likely to attempt to mitigate bias and address inequities later, especially when it's hard - when it involves changes in cultural practices and policies, for example."
    + "When we are forced to make quick decisions using subjective criteria, the potential for bias is great."

* [Countdown to Zero Day](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/219931/countdown-to-zero-day-by-kim-zetter/) - A detailed account of Stuxnet, a malicious computer worm, sabotaged an Iranian nuclear facility by targeting the programmable logic controllers in the facility to ruin their centrifuges. The book goes into detail on how it was discovered by a small group of security researchers and the level of sophistication that went into the attack and related intelligence gathering attacks as well as the sloppiness that lead to its detection after going undetected for years. It also touches on what it means for the future of cyber attacks.
    + "The targets most in danger from a digital attack in the United States are not just military systems but civilian ones - transportation, communication, and financial networks; food manufacturing and chemical plants; gas pipelines, water, and electric utilities; even uranium enrichment plants."
    + "A bomb dropped on a target might cause collateral damage, but it would be local. Computer networks, however, are complex mazes of interconnectivity, and a cyberweapon's path and impact once unleashed aren't always predictable."

* [A Field Guide to Lies](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/318650/a-field-guide-to-lies-by-daniel-j-levitin/) - A lot of the stuff in here as stuff I was already aware of but it's always good be reminded to step back and think things through before accepting a claim as true, especially if it confirms your prior belief.
    + "But it's important to remember that people gather statistics. People choose what to count, how to go about counting, which of the resulting numbers they will share with us, and which words they will use to describe and interpret those numbers. Statistics are not facts. They are interpretations."
    + "We also have a tendency to apply critical thinking only to things we disagree with. In the current information age, pseudofacts masquerade as facts, misinformation can be indistinguishable from true information, and numbers are often at the heart of any important claim or decision."

* [The Fifth Risk](https://wwnorton.com/books/the-fifth-risk) - An alarming look at the potential risks of having so many incompetent people in major government positions under the Trump administration, whether it be at the Department of Energy or the Department of Agriculture. People with detailed knowledge on how programs at these places work got replaced by people who couldn't even meet the most basic requirements for entry level positions. The general consensus on the most worrying thing for the former employees is the potential disasters that could stem from the commitment to scientific ignorance from people in positions of power. Things like scaling back environmental and food safety regulations, giving research money to those who will produce the political results you want and restricting access to data from government funded sources.
    + "At any rate, the serious risk in Iran wasn't that the Iranians would secretly acquire a weapon. It was that the president of the United States would not understand his nuclear scientists' reasoning about the unlikelihood of the Iranians obtaining a weapon, and that he would have the United States back away foolishly from the deal. Released from the complicated set of restrictions on its nuclear-power program, Iran would then build its bomb. It wasn't enough to have the world's finest forensic nuclear physicists. Our political leaders needed to be predisposed to listen to them and equipped to understand what they said."
    + A Department of Energy loan program for early-stage businesses that was criticized as wasteful spending due to one big failure. "No one had paid attention to it successes, and its one failure - Solyndra - had allowed right-wide friends of Big oil to bang on relentlessly about government waste and fraud and stupidity." After some digging it was discovered that they weren't taking enough risk and "the fear of losses that might in turn be twisted into antigovernment propaganda was threatening its mission." This program was canceled under Trump.
    + "Early-stage innovation in most industries would not have been possible without government support in a variety of ways, and it's especially true in energy. So the notion that we are just going to privatize early-stage innovation is ridiculous Other countries are outspending us in R&D, and we are going to pay a price."
    + "Here is where the Trump administration's willful ignorance plays a role. If your ambition is to maximize the short-term gain without regard to the long-term cost, you are better off not knowing the cost. If you want to preserve your personal immunity to the hard problems, it's better to never really understand the problems. There is an upside to ignorance, and a downside to knowledge."
    + "Junk science will be used to muddy issues like childhood nutrition. Maybe sodium isn't as bad for kids as people say! There's no such thing as too much sugar! The science will suddenly be 'unclear'. There will no longer be truth and falsehood. There will just be stories with tow sides to them."
    + "In the red southern states the mayor sometimes would say, 'Can you not mention that the government gave this?' Even when it was saving lives, or preserving communities, the government remained oddly invisible... We don't teach people what the government actually does."
    + "Without weather satellites, weather radar, weather buoys, and weather balloons, there would be no weather forecasting worth listening to, much less paying for. Whatever AccuWeather - and any other private weather forecaster - might be doing to refine the National Weather Service's forecast also depended on having those forecasts in the first place."
    + "That was the sad truth - the public servants couldn't or wouldn't defend themselves, and few outside the US government had a deep interest in sticking up for them."
    + "Pause a moment to consider that audacity of that maneuver. A private company whose weather predictions were totally dependent on the billions of dollars spent by the US taxpayer to gather the data necessary for those predictions, and on decades of intellectual weather work sponsored by the US taxpayer, and on international data sharing treaties made on behalf of the US taxpayer, and on the very forecasts that the National Weather Service generated, was, in effect, trying to force the US taxpayer to pay all over again for what the National Weather Service might be able to tell him or her for free." That is what AccuWeather wants, and their CEO, Barry Myers, was Trump's nomination to run the NOAA. [Fortunately he has withdrawn.](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/21/us/politics/barry-myers-noaa-nomination.html) Essentially trying to take a public good, paid for with taxpayer dollars and restrict it to the few who profit off that data by privatizing weather forecasts.
    + "Virtually all the satellite data that came into NOAA wound up in places where no one could ever see it again. The Weather Company simply sought to render it accessible to the public. Myers threatened to sue the Weather Service if they did it."
    + "The private weather industry, unlike the National Weather Service, has a financial interest in catastrophe. The more spectacular and expensive the disasters, the more the people will pay for the warning of them... The more they pay, the more the weather industry can afford to donate to elected officials, and the more influence it will gain on the political process... You know Hurricane Harvey is going to do to Houston before Houston knows: Do you help Houston? Or do you find clever ways to make money off Houston's destructions."
    + "While the tornado was touching down in Moore, AccuWeather's network channel was broadcasting videos of ... hippos, swimming." This is after they sent out an alert to their paying customers 12 minutes before the tornado touched down.

* [Bullshit Jobs](https://www.simonandschuster.com/books/Bullshit-Jobs/David-Graeber/9781501143335) - The book breaks down bullshit jobs into five categories - flunkies (jobs to make someone else look or feel important), goons (exist only because other people employ them and largely have a negative impact on society), duct tapers (solve a problem that should not exist in the first place), box tickers (allow an organization to be able to claim it is doing something it probably isn't doing) and taskmasters (two types, Type 1 are unnecessary superiors, the opposite of flunkies, Type 2 create bullshit tasks for others). It is more of a qualitative and anecdotal look at useless jobs with lots of personal stories from readers about their bullshit jobs. The psychological effects of a job we think is useless are damaging. People want to contribute something meaningful to society, and this could be why meaningful jobs tend to be low paying jobs.
    + "a bullshit job is a form of paid employment that is so completely pointless, unnecessary, or pernicious that even the employee cannot justify its existence even though, as part of the conditions of the employment, the employee feels obliged to pretend that this is not the case."
    + "If someone had designed a work regime perfectly suited to maintaining the power of financial capital, it's hard to see how he or she could have done a better job. Real, productive workers are relentlessly squeezed and exploited. The remainder are divided between a terrorized stratum of the universally reviled unemployed and a larger stratum who are basically paid to do nothing, in positions designed to make them identify with the perspectives of the ruling class (managers, administrators, etc.) - and particularly it financial avatars - but, at the same time, foster a simmering resentment against anyone whose work has clear and undeniable social value."
    + "While neoliberal rhetoric was always all about the unleashing of the magic of the marketplace and placing economic efficiency over all other values, the overall effect of the free market policies has been that rates of economic growth have slowed pretty much everywhere except India and Chine; scientific and technological advance has stagnated; and in most wealthy nations, the younger generations can, for the first time in centuries, expect to lead less prosperous lives than their parents did. Yet on observing these effects, proponents of market ideology always reply with calls for even stronger doses of the same medicine, and politicians duly enact them."
    + "Shit jobs tend to be blue collar and pay by the hour, whereas bullshit jobs tend to be white collar and salaried. Those who work shit jobs tend to be the object of indignities; they not only work hard but they are also held in the lowest esteem for that very reason.... Those who work bullshit jobs are often surrounded by honor and prestige; they are respected as professionals, well paid, and treated as high achievers... Yet secretly they are aware they have achieved nothing"
    + "When managers began trying to come up with scientific studies of the most time- and energy-efficient ways to deploy human labor, they never applied those same techniques to themselves - or if they did, the effect appears to have been the opposite of what they intended."
    + "And being forced to pretend to work, we discovered, was the most absolute indignity - because it was impossible to pretend it was anything but what it was: pure degradation, a sheer exercise of the boss's power for its own sake."
    + "If the existence of bullshit jobs seems to defy the logic of capitalism, one possible reason for their proliferation might be that the existing system isn't capitalism"
    + "if the market can get things so wrong in the one area the worker knows best, then surely she can not just blandly assume the market can be trusted to asses the true value of goods and services in those areas where she lacks firsthand information."
    + "To some degree, the skill at actually reading others' emotions is just an effect of what working-class work actually consists of: rich people don't have to learn how to do interpretive labor nearly as well because they can hire other people to do it for them. Those hirelings, on the other hand, who have to develop a habit of understanding other's points of views, will also tend to care about them."
    + "Bullshit jobs proliferate today in large part because of the peculiar nature of managerial feudalism that has come to dominate wealthy economies - but to an increasing degrees, all economies. They cause misery because human happiness is always caught up in a sense of having effects on the world; a feeling which most people, when they speak of their work, express through a language of social value. Yet at the same time they are aware that the greater social value produced by a job, the less one is likely to be paid to do it."
    + "A case could be made that the great historical difference between what we call the Left and the Right largely turns on the relation between value and values. The Left has always been about trying to collapse the gulf between the domain dominated by pure self-interest and the domain traditionally dominated by high-minded principles; the Right has always been about prising them even farther apart, and then claiming ownership of both. They stand for both greed and charity. Hence, the otherwise inexplicable alliance in the Republican Party between the free market libertarians and the 'values voters' of the Christian Right. What this comes down to in practice has usually been the political equivalent of a strategy of good-cop-bad-cop: first unleash the chaos of the market to destabilize lives and all existing verities alike; then, offer yourself up as the last bastion of the authority of church and fatherhood against the barbarians they have themselves unleashed."
    + "It's hard to imagine a surer sign that one is dealing with an irrational economic system than the fact that the prospect of eliminating drudgery is considered to be a problem." (ie. millions of medical insurance jobs lost if the US switches from private to public healthcare)
    + "much of the reason for the expansion of the bullshit sector more generally, is a direct result of the desire to quantify the unquantifiable. To put it bluntly, automation makes certain tasks more efficient, but at the same time, it makes other tasks less efficient. This is because it requires enormous amounts of human labor to render the processes, tasks, and outcomes that surround anything of caring value into a form that computers can even recognize."
    + "The reason the current allocation of labor looks the way it does, then, has nothing to do with economics or even human nature. It's ultimately political."
    + "Finance works its way into everything, from car loans to credit cards, but it's significant that the principle cause of bankruptcy in America is medical debt, and the principle force drawing young people into bullshit jobs is the need to pay student loans."
    + "Basic Income might seem like a vast expansion of state power,... but, in fact, it's the exactly the reverse. Huge sections of government - and precisely, the most intrusive and obnoxious ones, since they are most deeply involved in the moral surveillance of ordinary citizens - would instantly be made unnecessary and could simply be closed down."
    + "Universal Basic Income would mean millions of people who recognize the absurdity of this situation will have the time to engage in political organizing to change it, since they will no longer be forced to highlight forms for eight hours a day, or scramble around for an equivalent amount of time trying to figure out a way to pay the bills."

* [The Wisdom of Insecurity](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/551520.The_Wisdom_of_Insecurity)
    + "If my happiness at this moment consists largely in reviewing happy memories and expectations, I am but dimly aware of this present. I shall be dimly aware of the present when the good things that I have been expecting come to pass. For I shall have formed a habit of looking behind and ahead, making it difficult for me to attend to the here and now."
    + "So many people of wealth understand much more about making and saving money than about using and enjoying it. They fail to live because they are always preparing to live. Instead of earning a living they are mostly earning an earning, and thus when the time comes to relax they are unable to do so."
    + "Here is a person who knows that in two weeks' time he has to undergo a surgical operation. In the meantime he is feeling no physical pain; he has plenty to eat; he is surrounded by friends and human affection; he is doing work that is normally of great interest to him. But his power to enjoy these things is taken away by constant dread. He is insensitive to the immediate realities around him. His mind is preoccupied with something that is not yet here. It is not as if he were thinking about it in a practical way, trying to decide whether he should have the operation or not, or making plans to take care of his family and his affairs if he should die. These decisions have already been made. Rather, he is thinking about the operation in an entirely futile way, which both ruins his present enjoyment of life and contributes nothing to the solution of any problem. But he cannot help himself."
    + "The miracles of technology cause us to live in a hectic, clockwork world that does violence to human biology, enabling us to do nothing but pursue the future faster and faster."

* [Digital Minimalism](https://www.calnewport.com/books/digital-minimalism/) - Digital minimalism is a "philosophy of technology use in which you focus your online time on a small number of carefully selected and optimized activities that strongly support things you value, and then happily miss out on everything else." The digital decluttering process is take a 30 day break from all optional technology and use that time to find meaningful activities. After the break is over, for each optional technology you reintroduce, determine what the value of it is in your life and how you will maximize that value. The book also stresses the importance of solitude: spending time alone with your own thoughts and free from input from other minds. The suggestions for how to increase solitude are leave your phone at home, take long walks and write letters or notes to yourself. It also discusses research on how human brains are wired to be social because they have adapted to automatically practice social thinking during cognitive downtime. With social media conversation is being replaced with connection. To combat this we should adopt more conversation-centric-communication. The suggestions given are to stop clicking like (replace lots of low value, online interactions with fewer high value, in-person interactions), consolidate texting (texting can "give off the approximate luster of true conversation") and hold conversation office hours (this negates the concern that unsolicited calls may be bothersome). Digital technology should help set up and maintain your leisure activities, not be the primary leisure activity itself. Some practices that can help you do this are: fix or build something every week, scheduling low-quality leisure (web surfing, Netflix, ...), joining something (club, recreational sports league, ...) and strategizing your free time. The core digital minimalism practices are: delete social media from your phone, turn your devices into single-purpose computers (general purpose != more productivity), use social media like a professional (follow a small, narrow list of people specific to what you value highly), embrace slow media (focus only on the highest quality sources, avoid following breaking news) and dumbing down your smart phone.
    + "the hot new technologies that emerged in the past decade or so are particularly well suited to foster behavioral addictions, leading people to use them much more than they think is useful or healthy. Indeed, as revealed by whistleblowers and researchers like Tristan Harris, Sean Parker, Leah Pearlman, and Adam Alter, these technologies are in many cases specifically designed to trigger this addictive behavior. Compulsive use, in this context, is not the result of a character flaw, but instead the realization of a massively profitable business plan. We didn't sign up for the digital lives we now lead. They were instead, to a large extent, crafted in boardrooms to serve the interests of a select group of technology investors."
    + "How much of your time and attention, he would ask, must be sacrificed to earn the small profit of occasional connections and new ideas that is earned by cultivating a significant presence on Twitter. Assume, for example, that your Twitter habit effectively consumes ten hours per week. Thoreau would note that this cost is almost certainly way too high for the limited benefits it returns. If you value new connections and exposure to interesting ideas, he might argue, why not adopt a habit of attending an interesting talk or event every month, and forcing yourself to chat with at least three people while there?"
    + "It's easy to be seduced by the small amounts of profit offered by the latest app or service, but then forget its cost in terms of the most important resource we possess: the minutes of our life."
    + "Simply put, humans are not wired to be constantly wired."
    + "When you spend multiple hours a day compulsively clicking and swiping, there's much less free time left for slower interactions. And because this compulsive use emits a patina of socialness, it can delude you into thinking that you're already serving your relationships well, making further action unnecessary"
    + "If you being decluttering the low-value digital distractions from your life before you've convincingly filled in the void they were helping you ignore, the experience will be unnecessarily unpleasant at best and a massive failure at worse."
    + "Leisure Lesson #1: Prioritize demanding activity over passive consumption."
    + "Leisure Lesson #2: Use skills to produce valuable things in the physical world."
    + "Leisure Lesson #3: Seek activities that require real-world, structured social interaction."
    + "A foundational theme in digital minimalism is that new technology, when used with care and intention, creates a better life than either Luddism or mindless adoption."

* [White Fragility](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9780807047415) - One of the major obstacles for getting white people to understand racism is the binary good/bad view that only bad people can be racist. People are taught that racism is bad and think this means only bad people can be racist. They think racism is limited to intentional acts by bad people. They get defensive when being called out for something they did that someone else may view as racist because to them they are being called a bad person. This defensiveness prevents them from taking some time for self-reflection and they lose out on an opportunity to learn. White people are insulated from race-based stress. Being taught to treat everyone the same and not see color just lets white people ignore the racial dynamics that exist everywhere. It also can make white people unable to see themselves in racial terms which can result in them thinking they are being treated unfairly when they are pressed to see themselves in racial terms. All of this results in it being so difficult to confront white people about racism that many don't even bother trying. Advice for combatting white fragility is to educate yourself on racism, acknowledging ourselves are racial beings with a limited perspective on race, develop authentic relationships with non-white people and stop being silent about race and racism when around other white people. It is important to take feedback as an opportunity to learn and be appreciative of it rather than getting defensive.
    + "White progressives can be the most difficult for people of color because, to the degree that we think we have arrived, we will put our energy into making sure that others see us having arrived. None of our energy will go into what we need to be doing for the rest of our lives; engaging in ongoing self-awareness, continuing education, relationship building, and actual antiracist practice."
    + "I can be seen as qualified to lead a major or minor organization in this country with no understanding whatsoever of the perspectives or experiences of people of color, and virtually no ability to engage critically with the topic of race."
    + "Individualism claims that there are no intrinsic barriers to individual success and that failure is not a consequence of social structures but comes from individual character. According to the ideology of individualism, race is irrelevant."
    + "If poor whites were focused on feeling superior to those below them in status, they were less focused on those above. The poor working class, if united across race, could be a powerful force. But racial divisions have served to keep them from organizing against the owning class who profits from their labor."
    + "Whites hold the social and institutional positions in society to infuse their racial prejudice into the laws, policies, practices, and norms of society in a way that people of color do not."
    + "Color-blind ideology makes it difficult for us to address these unconscious beliefs. While the idea of color blindness may have started out as a well-intentioned strategy for interrupting racism, it practice it has served to deny the reality of racism and thus hold it in place."
    + "Whites rarely consider how sheltered and safe their spaces may be from the perspective of people of color(e.g., Trayvon Martin's experience in a gated white community). Because it reverses the actual direction of the racial danger, this narrative may be one of the most pernicious."
    + "This freedom from responsibility [not having to worry about how people perceive me because I'm white] gives me a level of racial relaxation and emotional and intellectual space that people of color are not afforded as they move through their day."
    + [On speaking up about a racist comment when among a group of white people] "We might be accused of being politically correct or might be perceived as angry, humorless, combative, and not suited to go far in an organization. ... Conversely, when I kept quiet about racism, I was rewarded with social capital such as being seen as fun, cooperative, and a team player."
    + "white fragility enabled the white elite to direct the white working class's resentment toward people of color. The resentment is clearly misdirected, given that the people who control the economy and who have managed to concentrate more wealth into fewer (white) hands than ever before in human history are the white elite."
    + "The expectation that people of color should teach white people about racism is another aspect of the white racial innocence that reinforces several problematic racial assumptions. First, it implies that racism is something that happens to people of color and has nothing to do with us and that we consequently cannot be expected to have any knowledge of it. ... Second, this request requires nothing of us and reinforces unequal power relations by asking people of color to do our work. ... Third, the request ignores the historical dimensions of race relations. It disregards how often people of color have indeed tried to tell us what racism is like for them and how often they have been dismissed."
    + "I was raised in a society that taught me that there was no loss in the absence of people of color - that their absence was a good and desirable thing to be sought and maintained - while simultaneously denying the fact [by making an effort to attend a better (whiter) school]."
    + "The simplistic idea that racism is limited to individual intentional acts committed by unkind people is at the root of virtually all white defensiveness on the topic. To move beyond defensiveness, we have to let go of this common belief."
    + [On teachers calling a student's complaint about an offensive remark made by a teacher an overreaction.] "These white teachers' responses illustrate several dynamics of white fragility. First, the teachers never considered that in not understanding the student's reaction, they might be lacking some knowledge or context. They demonstrated no curiosity about the student's perspective or why she might have taken offense. Nor did they show concern about the student's feelings. They were unable to separate intentions from impact."
    + "White fragility functions as a form of bullying; I am going to make it so miserable for you to confront me - no matter how diplomatically you try to do so - that you will simply back off, and never raise the issue of race again."
    + "White fragility is much more than mere defensiveness or whining. It may be conceptualized as the sociology of dominance: an outcome of white people's socialization into white supremacy and a means to protect, maintain, and reproduce white supremacy."
    + "When a white woman cries, a black man gets hurt."

* [The Four](http://www.thefourbook.com/)
    + "Amazon is going underwater with the world's largest oxygen tank, forcing other retailers to follow it, match its prices, and deal with changed customer delivery expectations. The difference is other retailers have just the air in their lungs and are drowning. Amazon will surface and have the ocean of retail largely to itself."
    + "Amazon has access to capital with lower return expectations than peers."
    + "Amazon business thinking: If we can borrow money at historically low rates, why don't we invest that money in extraordinarily expensive control delivery systems. That way we secure an impregnable position in retail and asphyxiate our competitors. Then we can get really big fast."
    + "In the first quarter of 2015, the iPhone accounted for only 18.3 percent of the smartphones shipped globally, but 92 percent of the industry's profits. That's luxury marketing. How do you elegantly communicate to friends and strangers that your skills, DNA, and background put you in the 1 percent, no matter where you are? Easy, cary an iPhone."
    + "Steve Jobs's transition from a tech to a luxury brand is one of the most consequential - and value-creating - insights in business history. Technology firms can scale, but they are rarely timeless."
    + "Old-economy barriers that are expensive and take a long time to dredge (and for competitors to cross). Apple has done this superbly, continually investing in the world's best brand, and in stores."
    + "Facebook benefits from the ultimate jujitsu move: it will likely become the largest media company on earth, and it gets its content, similar to Google, from its users. In other words, more than a billion customers labor for Facebook without compensation."
    + "Marketing to moderates is like fracking for gas. You only do it if the easier alternatives aren't available. Thus, we are exposed to less and less calm, reasonable content."
    + "Another reason they [Facebook and Google] don't want to be positioned as media companies is more perverse. Respectable companies in the news business recognize their responsibility to the public and try to come to grips with their role in shaping the worldview of their customers. You know: editorial objectivity, fact-checking, journalistic ethics, civil-discourse - all that kind of stuff. That's a lot of work, and it dents profit."
    + "Given the polarization of our political climate and the backfire effect - where if you present someone with evidence against their beliefs, they double down on their convictions - a 'disputed' label won't persuade a lot of people. It's easier to fool people than to convince they they've been fooled."
    + "To involved humans would supposedly being on implicit and explicit biases. But AI has biases as well. It's programmed, by humans, to select the most clickable content."
    + "Google also was learning - better than the Times itself - exactly what the paper's readers wanted and were likely to want in the future. And that meant Google could target those Times readers with the far greater precision and make more money from each ad."
    + "Google's control of knowledge is now so complete, and the barriers to entry by competitors so great (look at the marginal success of Microsoft's Bing), that the firm might maintain control for years."
    + "Among the Four, these eight factors are prevalent: product differentiation, visionary capital, global reach, likability, vertical integration, AI, accelerant, and geography."
    + "We used to admire firms that created hundreds of thousands of middle- and upper-class jobs; now our heroes are firms that produce a dozens lords and hundreds of thousands of serfs."

* [The Spy and the Traitor](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/253399/the-spy-and-the-traitor-by-ben-macintyre/) - The story of a Oleg Gordievsky, who worked for the KGB and became a British spy.

* [How to be an Antiracist](https://www.ibramxkendi.com/how-to-be-an-antiracist-1)
    + "Americans have long been trained to see the deficiencies of people rather than policy. It's a pretty easy mistake to make: People are in our faces. Policies are distant. We are particularly poor at seeing the policies lurking behind the struggles of people."
    + "I had been taught that racist ideas cause racist policies. That ignorance and hate cause racist ideas. That the root problem of the racism is ignorance and hate. But that gets the chain of events exactly wrong. The root problem - from Prince Henry to President Trump - has always been the self-interest of the racist power."
    + "Race is a mirage but one that humanity has organized itself around in very real ways. Imagining away the existence of races in a racist world is as conserving and harmful as imagining away classes in a capitalistic world - it allows the ruling races and classes to keep on ruling."
    + "We are not meant to fear suits with policies that kill. We are not meant to fear good White males with AR-15s. No, we are to fear the weary, unarmed Latinx body from Latin America. The Arab body kneeling to Allah is to be feared. The Black body from hell is to be feared."
    + "To be antiracist is to see all cultures in all their differences as on the same level, as equals. When we see cultural difference, we are seeing cultural difference - nothing more, nothing less."
    + "One of racism's harms is the way it falls on the unexceptional Black person who is asked to be extraordinary just to survive - and, even worse, the Black screwup who faces the abyss after one error, while the White screwup is handed second chances and empathy."
    + "Making individuals responsible for the perceived behavior of racial groups and making whole racial groups responsible for the behavior of individuals are the two ways that behavioral racism infects our perception of the world."
    + "We must discern the difference between racist power (racist policymakers) and White people. For decades, racist power contributed to stagnating wages, destroying unions, deregulating banks and corporations, and steering funding for schools into prison and military budgets, policies that have often drawn a backlash from some White people."
    + "Racist power, hoarding wealth and resources, has the most to lose in the building of an equitable society. As we've learned, racist power produces racist policy out of self-interest and then produces racist ideas to justify those policies. But racist ideas also suppress the resistance to policies that are detrimental to White people, by convincing average White people that inequity is rooted in 'personal failure' and is unrelated to policies. Racist power manipulates ordinary White people into resisting equalization policies by drilling them on what they are losing with equalization policies and how those equalization policies are anti-White."
    + "White supremacists love that America used to be, even though America used to be - and still is - teeming with millions of struggling White people. White supremacists blame non-White people for the struggles of White people when any objective analysis of their plight primarily implicates the rich White Trumps they support."

* [Billion Dollar Whale](https://www.billiondollarwhale.com/) - The story of Jho Low and how he effectively stole billions of dollars from the Malaysian taxpayers and fooled many in Wall Street and Hollywood into thinking he was the real deal.
